Overall Impression: Good
Suggested Decision: Accept
Technical Quality of the paper: Good
Presentation: Good
Reviewer`s confidence: Medium
Significance: Moderate significance
Background: Reasonable
Novelty: Limited novelty
Data availability: All used and produced data (if any) are FAIR and openly available in established data repositories
Length of the manuscript: The length of this manuscript is about right
Summary of paper in a few sentences (summary of changes and improvements for second round reviews): 

The author has substantially revised the paper to better discuss/reference related work, and to clarify the claims and contributions of the paper. The distinction between what is proposed here and the application of natural language processing and more semantic annotation is clarified, and there is additional material that provides more concrete examples for the author's ideas.

Reasons to accept: 

(Reasons repeated from previous review; the broad value hasn't changed.)
The notion of, as I have understood it, reasoning over combinations of annotations to infer higher-order semantic types is interesting. There is pragmatic value in the approach; to the extent that semantic characteristics can be inferred from a document itself rather than demanding additional manual effort, the more likely those characteristics will be captured and represented.

(New reasons)
- The concept has been elaborated with additional formal specification, as well as examples of its application

Reasons to reject: 

- The notion of "downward causation" that has been added to the manuscript is not entirely clear and not supported by examples.
- The definition of structural patterns is presented in terms of modal constraints ("can or cannot"); it is unclear precisely how these constraints can be inferred from examples. (Should it be "do or do not"?)
- The code the defines mapping from structural patterns to structural semantics is underspecified and seems largely to depend on heuristics. Is there a strategy for evaluating such heuristics or validating the assumptions that they are based on?

Further comments: 

There is somewhat of a normative feel to several of the comments in the paper -- e.g. the discussion of HTML in Section 6. Saying that certain behaviour "should be avoided" doesn't change the fact that people will do it anyway, usually because they don't realise that there might be a different way of doing things, or have reasons to prefer that other way. If you are going to argue that there are consensus patterns that can be inferred from examples, then you should acknowledge that those patterns might vary from some ideal.

Regarding the comment relating to validation of heuristics, there should be some discussion of how mappings between structural patterns, structural semantics, and rhetorical components are derived. Can this be automated?

Some typos/usage issues I picked up:
"people suggest" -> "people have suggested"
"use the sole syntactic organisation" -> "use solely the syntactic organisation"
"pure syntactic organisation" (do you mean "purely the syntactic organisation"?)
"the sole containment" -> "solely the containment"
"Contrarily" -> "In contrast"
"without caring about" -> "without consideration of"
"speculate" -> "propose"
"apply iteratively" -> "iteratively apply"
"In this cases" -> "In these cases"
"all the individual" -> "all the individual"
"experiment possible" -> "experiment with possible"
"brutal" -- strong word; probably you mean something else?
