Overall Impression: Weak
Suggested Decision: Undecided
Technical Quality of the paper: Unable to judge
Presentation: Weak
Reviewer`s confidence: Medium
Significance: Moderate significance
Background: Reasonable
Novelty: Clear novelty
Data availability: All used and produced data are FAIR and openly available in established data repositories
Length of the manuscript: The length of this manuscript is about right
Summary of paper in a few sentences: 

This article proposes a framework or approach to automatic annotation of scholarly articles that begins with an author writing regular prose, and results through an incremental process in a fully semantic marked-up document.

Reasons to accept: 

There's a really important story here trying to get out; if the story can be freed from what I think are unnecessary formalisms then this could be an important piece of work.

Reasons to reject: 

I should make it clear before I begin that I’ve worked with the author before, and have co-authored a paper with him. I have no connections beyond that.

I should also confess at the start that I found this paper difficult to read and understand. Much of that is because it requires more knowledge of formalisms than I have; part of it I suspect is because of issues with the article itself. It’s difficult for me to judge how much is the former and how much is the latter, so the rest of this review should be read with that in mind. My review doesn't follow the standard structure requested for Data Science reviews because I'd end up writing 'N/A' or 'don't know' against most of the headings. Instead I'm returning a narrative verdict in the hope that this is helpful to the author.

The general gist of the article is that it proposes a framework or approach to automatic annotation of scholarly articles that begins with an author writing regular prose, and results through an incremental process in a fully semantic marked-up document.

This is a laudable aim — and I agree wholeheartedly that providing authors with tools to simplify the process of adding machine-readable semantics to articles is crucial if we are to move in that direction.

This is also an exceptionally ambitious aim, and one which seems a long way off being reached by existing technology. My difficulty with this article — probably a misunderstanding — is that it seems to suggest that this is already achievable (although the suggestion in surrounded by, in my opinion, unnecessarily complex and slightly flakey discussion of Curry-Howard isomorphism) and that the rest of the aims can be achieved by layering on further semantic transformations.

I think if this article was saying “here is a collection of ontologies and frameworks that form a kind of hierarchy that could in an ideal world be used to describe the perfect semantic publication; and maybe you can even reason about the relationships between the layers” then I’d be a lot more comfortable with it. As it stands, either I’m not following the formal glue that’s used to hold the different steps together, or perhaps the formal glue isn’t quite as cohesive as it might be. Or some combination of these two things.

Overall I think there’s an important message in here, but it’s currently squirming to get out a bit.

This may sound somewhat negative, but I really do think the author has something important to say here. I’d suggest simplifying the formalisms (I really don’t think they add clarity), and including concrete examples. I think then it could make an excellent position paper that unifies several already significant pieces of work.

A few specific comments:

"Automating the Semantic Publishing" -> should this be “Automating Semantic Publishing” ? I’m not sure what the definite article is doing here.
I think the sub title is too dense for a general CS audience (or even for a ‘data science’ audience). It may make sense to someone that’s into formal methods. Maybe.

Gutemburg -> Gutenburgh

Throughout the article needs a fair amount of attention to the written English; too many minor infelicities to list here. Because the article is technically dense, these risk tripping the reader rather too often.
